Activity with Big Data:
https://www.meaningfulmovies.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/guide.pdf

What is Big Data?
“It is the accumulation and analysis of information. Lots of
information. Oceans of information. Every time someone
clicks on something at Amazon, it’s recorded and another
drop of is added to the ocean. Every time a scanner beeps
at the supermarket checkout. Every time a home electricity
meter reports a reading. Every time a parcel passes a FedEx
checkpoint. Every time a customs officer checks a passport,
every time someone posts to Facebook, every time someone
does a Google search — the ocean swells.”
—Dan Gardner, “An Ocean of Data”
(excerpted from The Human Face of Big Data)

Big Data is shaping businesses, shifting markets, and
transforming our world. During the first day of a baby’s life,
the amount of data generated by humanity is equivalent to 70
times the information contained in the Library of Congress.
Big Data is a simple term used to describe the emergence
of incredibly powerful ways to gather and analyze digital
information to gain new insights about nearly every aspect of
our world and lives.

It is the ability to extract meaning: to sort through huge
masses of numbers and find the hidden patterns, the
unexpected correlations, and the surprising connections.
You can think about Big Data as the process of helping the
planet grow a nervous system, one in which we are just
another human-type of sensor.

What’s Creating the Deluge of Information?
Each of us now leaves a trail of digital exhaust, an infinite
stream of phone records, texts, browser histories, GPS
data, and other information that will live on forever. This data
comes from:
• Sensors on mobile phones
• Online shopping
• Medical imaging
• GPS-enabled cameras and smartphones
• Satellites
• Smart electrical grids
• Video surveillance
• Social media: Facebook, Twitter, Google
• Digital music
• Digital photographs
• Large databases in the banking sector
• Gene sequencing

How to Measure Big Data and
What’s a Byte?

(A byte reminder – each one is 1,000 times larger than the
one before it!)
• A byte = one character, or a grain of sand
• A kilobyte = a sentence, or a couple of pinches of
sand
• A megabyte = a 20-slide PowerPoint show, a small
book, or a tablespoon of sand
• A gigabyte = 10 yards of books on a shelf, or a
shoebox full of sand
• A terabyte = 300 hours of good-quality video, a tenth
of the Library of Congress, or a playground sandbox
• A petabyte = 350,000 digital pictures, or a mile-long
stretch of beach
• An exabyte = half the information generated
worldwide in 1999, or a beach stretching from Maine
to North Carolina
• A zettabyte = unimaginable, or a beach as big as all
the coastlines in the world

Big Data Facts and Stats
• The worlds data doubles every two years
• In 2011, humans created 1.8 zettabytes of data. This
is equivalent to 200 billion high-definition movies
that are at least 120-minutes long. It would take one
person 47 million years to watch all those movies
• YouTube users upload 48 hours of new video every
minute of the day
• 20 petabytes of data are processed daily (that’s 20
billion megabytes)
• There are one billion Tweets created every 72 hours
• 30 billion pieces of content are shared on Facebook
monthly
• A personal computer holds about 500 gigs, so it
would require about 20 billion PCs to store all of the
world’s data
• $600 buys a disk drive that can store all of the world’s
music
• Lady Gaga has 28 million Twitter followers. Barack
Obama has 18 million
• Wal-Mart handles more than one million customer
transactions every hour, which is imported into
databases estimated to contain more than 2.5
petabytes of data

• More than five billion people are calling, texting,
tweeting, and browsing on mobile phones worldwide
• Decoding the human genome originally took 10 years
to process; now it can be achieved in one week
• 571 new websites are created every minute of the day
Brands and organizations on Facebook receive 34,722
“Likes” every minute of the day
Today, a street fruit vendor in Mumbai can access more
information, maps, statistics, academic papers, price trends,
futures markets, and data than a U.S. president could only a
few decades ago

https://www.pbs.org/video/human-face-big-data-how-health-tracking-could-change-society/